#summary List of current plugins.
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =

There are many plugins that exist for the JEMS platform, and are in essence, what really makes JEMS useful.

= Plugin List =

== Media Metadata Plugins ==
These plugins deal directly with the media. Common uses include collecting media and its metadata, and storing all the metadata in between server launches.

  * [jem_plugin_source_xml XML Storage] - This plugin is used to store metadata of collected media files while the server is off line.
  * [jem_plugin_source_fs Filesystem Scanner] - This plugin scourers specified directories for any media and adds it to the JEMS system.

== Media Announcement Plugins ==
These plugins do the heavy lifting to provide your discovered media to all your devices. See also [SupportedDevices Supported Devices].

  * [jem_plugin_service_dmap DMAP Server] - This plugin uses DMAP to advertise media to DAAP (Canola, iTunes, !FrontRow) and DPAP (Canola, iPhoto, !FrontRow) capable clients.
  * [jem_plugin_service_upnp_mediaserver UPnP MediaServer 1.0] - This plugin uses UPnP to provide data to UPnP aware clients, such as the XBox 360.
  * [jem_plugin_service_www WWW Server] - This plugin provides a basic web interface for interacting with the stored media.

== Interface Plugins ==
These plugins give users an alternate method for interacting with the JEMS interface.

  * [jem_plugin_interface_telnet Telnet Interface] - This plugin allows you to easily access the command line interface via the telnet protocol.

== Transcoder Plugins ==
These plugins allow for converting media on-the-fly to deliver to various clients that may not support the original format.

  * [jem_plugin_transcoder_ffmpeg FFmpeg Transcoder] - Uses FFmpeg as a back end to enable transcoding of media.