#summary Gives a list of supported devices
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =
One of the main goals of the JEMS project is to allow media to be accessed as easily as possible across a network for a truly plug and play experience. One way of accomplishing this is trying to maintain compatibility with as many applications and devices as possible. This page is dedicated to the supported devices. To help give back to the various communities that surround each device, notes about keeping compatibility will be kept here. 

= Device List =

== Supported Devices ==
This list shows the devices that I have access to, and seem to work well with JEMS.

=== DMAP (DAAP & DPAP) ===
  * [http://amarok.kde.org/ Amarok] - Works.
  * [http://openbossa.indt.org/canola/ Canola] - Works.
  * [http://www.apple.com/itunes/ iTunes] - Music & iTunes Supported video works great! No video transcoding support yet.

=== UPnP ===
  * [http://openbossa.indt.org/canola/ Canola] - Works.
  * [http://www.xbox.com/ XBox 360] - Works. [ [XBox360Notes Development Notes] ] 

== In Progress/Partial Support ==
This list includes devices that I have access to, and I am working on support for, or don't quite work perfectly yet.

=== DMAP (DAAP & DPAP) ===
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front_Row FrontRow] - Piggybacks on iTunes/iPhoto, but tends to be more picky/flakey then both combined. Usually works.
  * [http://www.apple.com/ilife/iphoto/ iPhoto] - Almost works. Some more investigation needs to be done to move this to fully working. (Problems with thumbnails mostly)

=== UPnP ===
  * [http://www.nero.com/nero7/eng/Nero_Home.html Nero Home] - Video doesn't play, music does, but is missing song information (song length, track, etc.)

== Planned Support ==
This list includes devices that I have access to, but don't currently work yet.

=== UPnP ===
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/player/11/default.aspx Windows Media Player 11] - Dies during handshaking.

== Reported ==
This list includes devices that I don't have access to, but have been told work to varying degrees. 

  * _None yet_
